We added a service, we added basic routing, so we added state management and navigation, two important features
for using Angular
and of course we have all the other nice features of being able to just use ngFor instead of writing
our own Javascript logic to add elements dynamically to the DOM
and this shows us why using Angular is nice and it also shows you that it works together with Ionic
just fine.
Now it is especially awesome to see it work together with Angular when we do need extra features like
that alert controller. Remember that previously, if we wanted an alert controller, we had to integrate
ion-alert-controller as a component and then we had to get access to it programmatically so that we
could use it.
Now you see I even get an error that Angular doesn't know that alert controller because the Ionic Angular
package doesn't even wrap it into an Angular component as it does for all the other components,
the reason for that is that we now use this alert controller differently, more conveniently. To show you
how to use it,
let's edit our app a little bit and let's make sure we can delete a recipe here,
shall we? For this in our toolbar,
I'll add another ion-buttons element, slot here is primary,
this will be by default at the end of the toolbar and I'll add an ion-button in there where I want to
have an ion-icon,
let's find a nice icon for deleting something on ionicons.com. If we search for delete, this trash
bin here will do, the name is trash,
so here I'll give this a name of trash.
I only want to have the icon, so on the ion-icon,
I'll give it a slot of icon only,
so in that button I'll now only have that icon,
that is what this does.
And if we now save that, on the app as it reloads, if we go to the detail page here, you see that trash
bin here.
Now when I tap this, I want to delete this recipe. For that,
let's go to the recipe service and let's add a delete recipe method and we need the recipeId of
the recipe that should be deleted of course.
And then I will set this recipes equal to this
recipes filter, filter is another function built into default
normal Javascript
and this will execute a function on every element in this recipes array
and if this function then returns true, it will keep this element,
otherwise it will get rid of it and I of course want to keep all elements but the element with the recipe
ID here. So I go through all my recipes here and I want to return true if I want to keep it and false
if I want to drop it,
so I will return recipeId equal to recipeId,
that would now return true for all elements where the IDs are equal
but actually, I want to drop the element where the ID is equal, so I will check if it's not equal here.
Now this is delete recipe,
with delete recipe added, we can use it in the recipe detail component. There on this button,
let's add a click listener and execute onDeleteRecipe or whatever you want to call it,
let's add this method into recipe detail page component file here and in there,
I want to use my recipes service and call delete recipe for the recipeId we loaded here.
Now I'm only storing it in ngOnInit but I do have my loaded recipe,
so this loaded recipe and there the ID,
this is in the end the ID I want to pass to delete recipe.
Now once we're done deleting, of course I want to leave that page because the data for this page will
have been gone and therefore I'll inject the router
and with that, I mean the normal Angular router from @angular/router and after deleting here, I
will call this router navigate and now I will go to just /recipes here.
Well let's see if that works.
It does but of course I wanted to show you how we can use that alert controller in a nicer way.